[Music]
eight seemingly harmless habits that can
ruin both parents and kids lives parents
of course do their best raising their
kids but nobody's perfect and there are
some things however minor they might
seem that parents do every day that can
cause some pretty serious psychological
damage not only to their kids but to
themselves as well so let's take a look
at eight of these mentally destructive
habits before we do that take a moment
to subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications to keep up with all
our updates number eight constant rush
one of the main features of adult life
is that there's never enough time in the
day to get everything done yeah
multiply that by 10 for those who have
children getting the kids up and dressed
having breakfast and school lunches
ready
checking the books and homework are in
backpacks getting them to school on time
that's a typical morning for busy
parents and the hectic schedule doesn't
end there of course there are
after-school activities and your own
personal errands to run before then and
to top it off it's all accompanied by
stressed-out grumbling hurry up we're
gonna be late
watch what you're going but guess what
this hurried panic isn't just reserved
for parents it also gets passed on to
the kids and nobody needs that kind of
negativity in their life no matter what
their age in fact a study at the
University of Mary Washington has shown
that this constant rush often has
negative outcomes from mental health
including anxiety and depression so
delegate what errands you can to someone
else or postpone them till the weekend
when you can leave the kids with their
grandparents or a babysitter
[Music]
number seven force-feeding going off
that last point parents in rush mode
barely have time to even feed themselves
but when it comes to feeding the kids
most parents make an effort to prepare a
nice balanced meal so while the child
has had a plate full of Brussels sprouts
set in front of them mom or dad might be
hurriedly wolfing down a pop-tart or off
doing household chores or both at the
same time in a child's mind they might
think well I don't want icky vegetables
I want a pop-tart - why do I have to eat
this so children often refuse to eat
what's been given to them in her book
French children don't throw food
parenting expert Pamela Drucker Minh
says that your child won't ever throw
tantrums like this if the whole family
gathers at the table this time will be
an excellent occasion for communication
and will set the right example for
little ones Plus mom and dad need a
healthy balanced diet - number six not
setting boundaries imagine you're on the
phone and your child asks you a question
which you immediately answer the next
time you're on the phone they want to
retention again but this time you shush
them and tell them to go somewhere else
in play so where's the logic here
children need structure and stability
and this type of flip-flopping depending
on the situation definitely doesn't
provide that dr. Robert Myers a licensed
child and adolescent psychologist
explains that kids get used to the fact
that you instantly respond to their
every cry and need within the first year
of their lives if you don't want your
kid bothering you when you have an
important call then set a boundary or
constant rule for this first explain to
them why you'll no longer do it so that
the sudden change doesn't confuse them
and find a good activity for them during
your phone conversation whether it be a
box of crayons some puzzles or book warn
them before you get on the phone that
you'll be unavailable for a certain
amount of time and stick to your word
and remember always let a child finish
their thought when you're ready to
listen
number five inducing panic and fear
surely you remember that panicked
feeling you used to have when your mom
or dad headed off to a parent-teacher
conference where they discuss your
grades and behavior or that moment you
lost or broke something new and
expensive and the debilitating fear that
struck you knowing that your mom would
find out you certainly didn't like
feeling that way when you were a kid so
why would you want your child to as a
parent you can prevent this panic and
fear in your little one if you approach
a situation with positivity instead of
screaming at your kid over something as
petty as a lost or broken toy help them
find or fix it if they're struggling in
school sit down and work together on
improving those grades don't make your
kids wait for your reaction in despair
instead let them mess up a bit and help
them understand what they can do to fix
what they've done and avoid those
mistakes next time dr. Karl pickhardt a
psychologist and author of 15 parenting
books suggests looking at mess ups as a
chance to teach kids not to fear failure
number 4 self-criticism
you are your child's role model when
they grow up they want to be just like
you and that's a beautiful thing but
it's also a big responsibility on your
part to set a good example for them so
if you constantly call yourself fat or
ugly or stupid or whatever bad names you
tend to assign yourself your child will
think that this sort of self-loathing is
totally normal and okay but it's not you
should learn to love yourself so that
your child will do the same dr. Rachel
Bussmann a clinical psychologist at the
child mind Institute explains that we
shouldn't underestimate the power of
self-talk it can be pretty destructive
and the task of a good parent is to turn
it the other way around don't ignore the
child sad thoughts or negative feelings
about themselves talk it all out don't
promise them an unrealistically bright
outcome for every problem but share
stories of how you manage to cope with
similar issues you've had don't set
impossible standards for yourself and
your kids will follow in your footsteps
number three comparing your kids to
others why can't you be more like insert
other child's name here now remember
yourself as a kid and answer this
question honestly did hearing such
phrases from your parents ever help you
in any way did it inspire you to sign up
for music lessons or some
extracurriculars no and no your kids
feel the same way
dr. Shari Campbell a clinical
psychologist with over 25 years of
clinical training and experience
explains that every child is an
individual person and should be treated
as such
comparing your kid to their siblings
peers and even themselves in the past
suppresses their talents distances them
from you and lowers their self-esteem
compassion works much better than
comparison so praise their strengths
tell them you'll be there for them no
matter what and set realistic goals
together - fear of disapproval
you know who doesn't care about the
opinions of others self-reliant and
self-confident people do you think that
a child can grow into such an adult in a
family where he's forced to wear some
ugly but probably extremely worn hand
knit sweater not to offend grandma or to
eat something he hates just because it's
impolite to say no according to clinical
psychologists dr. Linda Tillman people
pleasers rely on approval from others so
heavily that they need it to feel secure
and confident they're so afraid of being
outcast from some social groups that
they sacrifice their individuality teach
your kids to always tell the truth and
not to put everyone else before
themselves it's ok and even necessary to
say no if something's really important
to you number one
neglecting family eventually your
children will grow up and start families
of their own and when that happens do
you think that's it for your
relationship with them that you'll no
longer see them or maybe once in a blue
moon if you're lucky of course you don't
want that who would but think about this
when was the last time you invited your
parents or in-laws over for a visit
remember everything you do set an
example for your kids
this also has to do with how much
attention you and your kids pay to each
other unfortunately gadgets steal a lot
of quality time away from families
nowadays a recent study at Illinois
State University analyzed 170 couples
with young children it found that
children have more behavioral problems
if their families spend a lot of time on
their gadgets and interrupt or even
avoid family conversations in order to
spend more time staring at a screen now
that's sad isn't it
[Music]
which of these habits do you find the
most destructive tell us in the comments
below share this video with your friends
and remember to hit the like button
subscribe to our Channel
you'll love it over on the bright side
[Music]